h1. You've found the data for jo3l.net and joelbradbury.net

It's all just a set of flat files that use a combination of henrik's "Jekyll":http://github.com/henrik/jekyll fork and git to get magically turned into a site.

Using henrik's fork allows arbitrary code execution (here in the form of _helpers.rb and lib/slugalizer.rb). It enabled use of HAML for templating, which can be used to get around some of the limitations of liquid templating - ie. more control over how the archive's get spit out, pretty pretty tags, and just general nice things. 

It's not perfect, and I'm not completely down with haml yet. Still, given the right includes, you can use haml and liquid side by side, so its almost all gain. The hope is that I can make this site something I'm proud of, both content wise, and technologically, a portfolio of skills if you will. 

I don't take any credit for this, it was all made by far more motivated men.

h2. License

Feel free to fork this site at any point. Download the whole thing if you want, but content within *journal/_posts* are copyrighted to me. If you want to use them, just ask, but don't be a dick about it. 
 
Everything else is far game, and by far game, I mean MIT licensed. The original setup was forked from http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll so have a look there if you'd like to see further up the tree. Later on, I forked my setup from http://github.com/henrik/jekyll for the buzz of using haml. Take the html, css and javascript and do whatever you please (though preferably not in exactly the format they are now). If you use them, let me know, or a link back would be just lovely. And you are a lovely person aren't you.
