---
layout : post
title : Add Some Color to Git and Svn
body : add_some_color
tags :
- git
- terminal
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

Everybody knows that using svn/git[1] over command line is the way forward. GUI's make for a soft developer (I'm looking at you "tortoiseSVN":http://tigris.svn.org) and leaves you in a bind on different systems where they aren't supported (ie. over ssh). 

One of the things that helps massively is adding some color. Git has this ability _out the box_, you just need to enable it. 

h2. Color in Git

Git has supported the '--color' option for a while for the *diff* and *log* commands, but since version 1.5, you can add color system wide for git. All you need to do is edit the .git/config file and add the following.

{% highlight ini%}
[color]
  branch = auto
  diff = auto
  status = auto
[color "branch"]
  current = yellow reverse
  local = yellow 
  remote = green
[color "diff"]
  meta = yellow bold
  frag = magenta bold
  old = red bold
  new = green bold
[color "status"]
  added = yellow
  changed = green
  untracked = cyan
{% endhighlight %}

Bang. Color in your git commands. Pretty. Now if only we could do something similar with SVN.

h2. Color in SVN.

Now color in svn is a more tricky thing. There is no built in color support as part of a standard build. So we'll need to use a custom build then. 

Thats where "ColorSvn":http://colorsvn.tigris.org/ comes in. It's a build of the standard svn library, with added color support, as the name would so subtly imply. Download and install the "package":http://www.console-colors.de/index.php?n=ConsColors.Downloads and you'll be away, your svn commands will now be lovely and colorful. 

The current build of "ColorSvn":http://colorsvn.tigris.org/ is actually the 1.6.1 build of "svn":http://subversion.tigris.org/ so only use it if you're ready for the latest and greatest version of svn. Shouldn't really be a problem, but check just incase. 

h3. Caveat

When you install colorsvn, you'll be able to use all the svn commands you know and love - st, co, ci, log, diff... the whole boatload, _however_, you'll have to preface them with *colorsvn* rather than *svn*, so for example the status command changes from *svn st* to *colorsvn st*. Not pretty. 

So to fix that, we'll need to add an alias for colorsvn. In my case I've added the line:

{% highlight ini %}
alias svn="colorsvn"
{% endhighlight %}

.. to my ~/.profile. Sorted. So now, I can do a *svn st* and get back lovely colored statuses, just like git. 

p(footnote#fn1). I'm only talking about svn and git because that's what I use daily, svn at work and git outside of that. Use your imagination and extend this to cvs/mercurial etc.