---
layout : post
title : Sensible Git Refspecs
tags :
- git
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

When you do a *git pull*, *fetch*, *push* and some others you need to specify a refspec for the current repository. A refspec describes the mapping between the local reference and the remote one, so you can push (or pull etc) the _master branch head_ and store it as your _origin branch head_. Basically it's a way of mapping branches between repos. 

That's lovely, but depending on what you're working on, it might not always be nessecary. Take for instance this site. It's all stored as a git repo, and transformed in the real site using jekyll. It's only me that's working on it, and for now there's only a single branch, _master_. When pushing changes up I would of done this - 

{% highlight bash %}
git push live master
{% endhighlight %}

Where _live_ is the remote repo, and _master_ is my branch. It'd be nicer to just do -

{% highlight bash %}
git push live
{% endhighlight %}

and not have to specify the branch. Doing that as it stands will bring back the following :

{% highlight bash %}
warning: You did not specify any refspecs to push, and the current remote
warning: has not configured any push refspecs. The default action in this
warning: case is to push all matching refspecs, that is, all branches
warning: that exist both locally and remotely will be updated.  This may
warning: not necessarily be what you want to happen.
warning: 
warning: You can specify what action you want to take in this case, and
warning: avoid seeing this message again, by configuring 'push.default' to:
warning:   'nothing'  : Do not push anything
warning:   'matching' : Push all matching branches (default)
warning:   'tracking' : Push the current branch to whatever it is tracking
warning:   'current'  : Push the current branch
{% endhighlight %}

That's not too nice. So to get around having to specify which branch we're on, we can simply add the following to git config - 

{% highlight bash %}
git config --add push.default current
{% endhighlight %}

Nicer. But still not quite there. The *pull* will need to be sorted out at some point too.
