---
layout : post
title : Piping my rm
categories : journal
tags : 
- svn
- terminal
body: piping
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

When developing a site, running locally, and being held in version control by svn, you can run into some issues with certain dynamically generated files. Everything will be working fine, but an overzealous _svn add_ can lead to issues. 

Most of the time, these are cache files, and we just need to do a _propset ignore_ on the relevant cache files and the issue goes away, as it should. Other times, the files are dynamically generated, but only need to be generated a single time, then can exist like this forever. In this case _image thumbs_.

Development is running locally, so these thumbnail files are being created as you would expect. Other people are also viewing the a testing deploy of the site in a shared area. This causes these same thumbnail files to be created there also. 

Doing an *svn add* locally add's all the thumbnail's that have been generated, committing them pushes them up. When it comes to deploy them to the shared testing area, what would of been a simple _svn up_, will hit the following error:

{% highlight svn %}
svn: Failed to add file 'www/images/sized/images/uploads/twitter-90x90.gif': an unversioned file of the same name already exists
{% endhighlight %}

Natch. The update stops dead. You need to sort it out before you can finish updating the site. If it's just a single image, you can delete it manually to make way for the to incoming file, but what if it's hundreds of duplicate files?

A simple *svn st* on the remote repo will list changes, and these new thumbnails will be listed with a _?_ preceding them. Giving something like this:

<pre><code>
...
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/Lesley-McKnight---art-90x90.jpg
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/Linda-Davies---counselling-100x100.jpg
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/geo-cache_1506-184x209.jpg
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/Katherine-Bishton---business-90x90.jpg
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/Lesley-McKnight---art-80x80.jpg
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/Jack-Bebbington---fashion-80x80.jpg
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/art---Stephen-salter-80x80.jpg
?       www/images/sized/images/uploads/paul-harris---engineering-80x80.jpg
...
</code></pre>

With that output, we can clean it up, and then pipe it straight to xargs, to get rid of the files we don't want. The exact command would be :

<pre><code>
svn st | grep ^? | cut -c 9- | xargs rm
</code></pre>

* _svn st_ gets the list of changed files
* _grep ^?_ filters out anything that isn't new
* _cut -c 9-_ removes the first 9 empty characters
* _xargs rm_ does the actual job of removing the duplicate files

All done. Now you can do that *svn up* and we're good to go.

