---
layout : post
title : Your CMS Hates you
published : false
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 6th June 2009

This site has been through almost 6 designs that have never seen the light of day. After so many unsuccessful builds I've come to realize one *important* thing. 

bq. Your CMS *hates*  you. 

And this is a really deep and malicious hate. It's not that it just doesn't understand you or your way of life. It's whole existence is *dedicated to causing you pain*.

I don't know why it's taken this long to see it. 

Every design and build I've done for this site has had the same fatal flaw. They've all been going about it backwards.

I've started with the design, gone through the build, then moved that onto some Content Management System. At that point, I start thinking about content. 




The design? _Maybe_. The interactions. _Possibly_. The Content? _More than likely_.

Notice what's not on that list? The *CMS*. Why? Because the only people that give a damn about them, are the site owners. All they do is give some way of _getting_ the content to the user. More than that, the only thing they do a better job of 


It always followed the same pattern.

* Ideas
* Sketches
* Mockups
* Builds

h2. What was missing?


It's not that none of the designs weren't any good. It was the same issue, anybody sets out to design and build their own site faces. During the build process you'd spend so much time fretting over the smallest of details, eventually the thing as a whole escapes you, and you end with a build that, 




I used to blame the lack of time, but more recently I've come to realize that's not really the issue. 




 Always working on the next design for so long that I eventually fall out of love with it and end up scrapping it all and building up something new from the ground. Other times I blame the technology I'm working with, that just doesn't let me do everything I want it to. Let's move everything over to a new engine. 

Drawings were made, schemes schemed. Anything to just get a new site out. Let's go minimal. Minimal is less work. Obviously right(?). I won't need to do as much, just get it to a simple state and push it live. I can update it once it's up there. 

Yeah right.

After scrambling around for more than a year now I've come to realize one important point. 

h2. Your CMS Hates You. 

The CMS is the one thing that's keeping you from your site. It's abstracting everything, letting you (and me) spend so much more time concentrating on the design, on the interesting bits, rather than on the CONTENT.

